PR: Modernize bootstrap script (#17408)
spyder-ide/spyder: CONTRIBUTING.md

$ git remote add upstream https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder.git
```

### Creating an environment and installing dependencies

If you use a Conda-based distribution (Anaconda, etc), you can create an environment and install the necessary dependencies as follows:

```bash
$ conda create -n spyder-dev -c conda-forge --file requirements/conda.txt

> $ conda activate spyder-dev
> (spyder-dev) $ python install_dev_repos.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is no longer necessary because `bootstrap.py` install the subrepos by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ conda activate spyder-dev
```

You still need to activate the environment, though, for the next steps

```

If you are running on macOS, you will also need to install `python.app`, so after activating the environment, run

```bash
$ conda install -c conda-forge python.app
```

You can also use `virtualenv` on Linux, but `conda` is **strongly** recommended:

```bash
$ mkvirtualenv spyder-dev
$ workon spyder-dev
(spyder-dev) $ pip install -e .

> (spyder-dev) $ python install_dev_repos.py --no-install spyder

Reviewer: Are these two lines really necessary? Why do you need Spyder in development mode and not the subrepos when working with virtualenvs?

Reviewer 2: This line

```suggestion
(spyder-dev) $ pip install -e .
```

should be retained install Spyder's other deps first, analogous to installing `--file requirements/conda.txt` in the conda env, and then the bootstrap script installs the subrepos in editable mode, at least following the conda example above.

Author: `install_dev_repos` will install the the subrepos in develop mode; but as @CAM-Gerlach mentioned, `bootstrap.py` will now do this by default if they are not already installed. There is no need for the user to perform the extra step to install them.

$ git remote add upstream https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder.git
```

> ### Creating a conda environment or virtualenv

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Creating an environment and installing dependencies
```

More accurately reflect the modified contents of this section

> If you use Anaconda you can create a conda environment and install the necessary dependencies as follows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use a Conda-based distribution (Anaconda, etc), you can create an environment and install the necessary dependencies as follows:
```

* Clarify that this applies to any Conda-based distribution (Anaconda, Miniconda, Miniforge, etc), not just Anaconda proper
* Add missing comma
* Use colon as ending punctuation to introduce next block

```bash
$ conda create -n spyder-dev -c conda-forge --file requirements/conda.txt
$ conda activate spyder-dev
(spyder-dev) $ python install_dev_repos.py --editable
```

> If you are running on macOS, you will also need to install `python.app`, so the first line above should read

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are running on macOS, you will also need to install `python.app`, so after activating the environment, run
```

Instead of modifying the above in a specific case after previously stating it, I suggest retaining the previous structure of having it be a standalone command, to keep things simpler

```bash

> $ conda create -n spyder-dev -c conda-forge --file requirements/conda.txt python.app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ conda install -c conda-forge python.app
```

```

You can also use `virtualenv` on Linux, but `conda` is **strongly** recommended:

```bash
$ mkvirtualenv spyder-dev
$ workon spyder-dev

> (spyder-dev) $ install -e .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(spyder-dev) $ pip install -e .
```

This seems like a typo?

Author: should we also advise `python -m pip`?

Reviewer 2: I normally do when outside an activated venv, but the venv, so `pip` already points to the `pip` in the venv, otherwise something is very wrong.

(spyder-dev) $ python install_dev_repos.py --editable --no-install spyder
```

### Running Spyder

> To start Spyder directly from your clone, i.e. without installing it into your environment, you need to run (from the directory you cloned it to e.g. `spyder`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run Spyder from your clone in its development mode, with extra checks and options (pass `--help` to see them), launch it via the `bootstrap.py` script in the repo root directory:
```

Update this description to reflect that Spyder actually is installed, and briefly describe the point of `bootstrap,py` (over just running `spyder`)

```bash

> $ python -b -X dev bootstrap.py

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ python bootstrap.py
```

Actually, in testing, this generates too many noisy warnings that might alarm users, so let's leave it off here

```
Note that if you are running on macOS 10.15 or earlier, you will need to call `pythonw` instead of `python`.

To start Spyder in debug mode, useful for tracking down an issue, you can run:

```bash

> $ python -b -X dev bootstrap.py --debug

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ python bootstrap.py --debug
```

$ pip install -e .
```

> Finally, you need to install the subrepos in develop mode. This will install `spyder`, `spyder-kernels`, `qdarkstyle`, and `python-lsp-server` in develop mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, you need to install the core dependencies in the subrepos.
This will install `spyder`, `spyder-kernels`, `qdarkstyle`, and `python-lsp-server` in editable mode.
```

* Better, more precise/specific terminology.
* Avoid repetition
* Better phrasing
* OSPL

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: Technically, this should be `` ```console `` due to the prompt being used, but for consistancy with the others, they should all be changed at once.

$ pip install -e .
```

Finally, you need to install the core dependencies in the subrepos.

> This will install `spyder`, `spyder-kernels`, `qdarkstyle`, and `python-lsp-server` in editable mode.

Reviewer 3: I think QtConsole is missing in this description. A subrepo for QtConsole was added at PR https://github.com/spyder-ide/spyder/pull/17559

> This will install `spyder`, `spyder-kernels`, `qdarkstyle`, `qtconsole`, and `python-lsp-server` in editable mode.

Reviewer 3: I think `spyder` is not actually installed with the `install_subrepos.py` script, right?
